Add man page for qm (#8)
containers/qm: qm.8.md

% QM 8

## NAME
QM - Set up a Containerized environment for running Functional Safety QM (Quality Management) software.

## SYNOPSIS
This package allows users to set up an environment that prevents applications
and container tools from interfering with other processes on the
system.

The QM runs its own version of systemd and Podman to isolate not only the
applications and containers launched by systemd and Podman but also systemd and
Podman themselves. In other words, the systemd and Podman launched within the QM environment cannot affect the systemd or Podman processes running outside of that environment.

Software installed into the QM environment under the /usr/lib/qm/rootfs
directory is automatically isolated from the host. If developers need to
further isolate their applications from other processes in the QM, they should
use container tools like Podman.

## INSTALL

After the QM software package is installed, execute the

> /usr/share/qm/setup script to setup and install the /usr/lib/qm/rootfs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/usr/share/qm/setup script to setup and install the /usr/lib/qm/rootfs directory
```

Installing:
 dnf                                    noarch             4.14.0-2.fc38               fedora             478 k
...
```

## Entering the QM

To enter the QM environment, use this Podman command to 
launch containers from with the QM.

```
sh-5.2# podman exec -ti qm sh
sh-5.2#
```
The SELinux label can be checked by executing the following:

```
sh-5.2# id -Z
system_u:system_r:qm_t:s0:c35,c404
```

Notice that the process is running as `qm_t`, indicating that the process is a
confined QM process within the QM environment.

Containers can now be run within the QM environment using Podman.

```
sh-5.2# podman run --rm ubi9-minimal echo hi
Resolved "ubi9-minimal" as an alias (/etc/containers/registries.conf.d/000-shortnames.conf)
Trying to pull registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9-minimal:latest...
Getting image source signatures
Checking if image destination supports signatures
Copying blob 7bffb309b4e8 done  
Copying config 96179718b4 done  
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
hi
```

It is recommended that Podman quadlets are used to run additional containerized
applications within the QM. All applications within the QM are prevented from

> interfering with applications running outside of the QM.

Reviewer: I'm on the fence here about changing the "QM" reference to "QM environment".  Maybe:

It is recommended that Podman quadlets are used to run additional containerized
applications within the QM environment. All applications within the environment are prevented from
interfering with applications running outside of the QM environment.

% QM 8

## NAME

> QM - Setup Containerized environment for running Functional Safety QM (Quality Management) software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QM - Set up a Containerized environment for running Functional Safety QM (Quality Management) software.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
QM - Set up a Containerized environment for running QM (Quality Management) software in a Functional Safety context.
```

## SYNOPSIS
This package allow users to setup an environment which prevents applications

> and container tools from interfering with other all other processes on the

Reviewer: I think?
```suggestion
and container tools from interfering with other processes on the
```

system.

The QM runs its own version of systemd and Podman to isolate not only the

> applications and containers launched by systemd and Podman but systemd and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
applications and containers launched by systemd and Podman but also systemd and
```

> Podman themselves.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Podman themselves. In other words, the systemd and Podman launched within the QM environment cannot affect the systemd or Podman processes running outside of that environment.
```

I was thinking to add in the example of Podman holding on a lock in QM won't affect Podman running outside of it, but it starts to feel a bit redundant. Or we drop the sentence I propose above and use that concrete example instead?

Software installed into the QM environment under the /usr/lib/qm/rootfs
directory is automatically isolated from the host. If developers need to

> further isolate their applications from other processes in the QM they should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
further isolate their applications from other processes in the QM, they should
```

use container tools like Podman.

## INSTALL

After you have installed the software package, you need to execute the
/usr/share/qm/setup script to setup and install the /usr/lib/qm/rootfs

> with packages to run an isolated environment. By default the script installs

Reviewer 2: should this be done using RPM dependencies instead of the script?

Author: No, I don't believe this would be welcomed into Fedora, it would be triggering an installation procedure during a post install procedure. That is why I kept it separate.

Reviewer 2: oh, it installs these packages in the QM environment. Sorry I had missed this

Reviewer 2: Actually, I see it's not specified, might be worth adding it: `... systemd, and hirte packages in the QM environment, and then enables...`

> the selinux-policy-targeted, podman, systemd, hirte packages and then enables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the selinux-policy-targeted, podman, systemd, and hirte packages, and then enables
```

> and runs a qm.container Podman quadlet.

Reviewer: Is what you have right?  It seems like a connector is missing between qm.container and the Podman quadlet.  But I'm showing my QM ignorance here.  Maybe?
```suggestion
and runs a Podman quadlet qm.container.
```

> You can examine this quadlet with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Podman quadlet can be examined with the following command:
```

```

> systemctl status quadlet command.

Reviewer 2: euh.. `command`? :)

● qm.service
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/containers/systemd/qm.container; generated)
    Drop-In: /usr/lib/systemd/system/service.d
             └─10-timeout-abort.conf
     Active: active (running) since Tue 2023-04-11 15:43:45 EDT; 28min ago
   Main PID: 993674 (conmon)
      Tasks: 11 (limit: 76801)
     Memory: 275.1M (swap max: 0B)
        CPU: 4.527s
     CGroup: /QM.slice/qm.service
             ├─libpod-payload-00de006493bc970788d6c830beb494a58a9a2847a5eda200812d3a8b4e214814
             │ ├─init.scope
             │ │ └─993676 /sbin/init
             │ └─system.slice
             │   ├─dbus-broker.service
             │   │ ├─993763 /usr/bin/dbus-broker-launch --scope system --audit
             │   │ └─993764 dbus-broker --log 4 --controller 9 --machine-id 4ce4c21b211d41e78b7b64418c1c0cb5 -->
             │   ├─systemd-journald.service
             │   │ └─993718 /usr/lib/systemd/systemd-journald
...
```

## CGROUPS QM.slice

Notice that the QM environment is running systemd and other services within the

> QM.Slice. You can use this slice to modify the cgroups controls of all of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QM.Slice. This slice can be used to modify the cgroups controls of all of the
```

processes within the QM environment.

## Install Additional packages in QM

If you want to add other packages into the QM environment, use the `dnf` command
on the host. For example if you want to install the dnf command you can execute:

```
# dnf install --installroot=/usr/lib/qm/rootfs dnf
Updating Subscription Management repositories.
Unable to read consumer identity

> This system is not registered with an entitlement server. You can use subscription-manager to register.

Reviewer: Is this warning/error one a user would generally expect to run into?

Author: Not sure, this is caused by my system being registered to RHN.  So I guess I should just remove this.

Author: Removed.

Last metadata expiration check: 0:33:12 ago on Tue 11 Apr 2023 03:42:09 PM EDT.
Dependencies resolved.
================================================================================================================
 Package                                Architecture       Version                     Repository          Size
================================================================================================================
Installing:
 dnf                                    noarch             4.14.0-2.fc38               fedora             478 k
...
```

## Entering the QM

You can use the Podman command to enter the QM environment and then actually
launch containers from with the QM.

```
sh-5.2# podman exec -ti qm sh
sh-5.2#
```
You can check the SELinux label, by executing the following:

```
sh-5.2# id -Z
system_u:system_r:qm_t:s0:c35,c404
```

> Notice that the process is running as `qm_t` indicating that you are in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that the process is running as `qm_t`, indicating that the process is a
```

confined QM process within the QM environment.

> You can now run containers within the QM using Podman.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Containers can now be run within the QM environment using Podman.
```

```
sh-5.2# podman run --rm ubi9-minimal echo hi
Resolved "ubi9-minimal" as an alias (/etc/containers/registries.conf.d/000-shortnames.conf)
Trying to pull registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9-minimal:latest...
Getting image source signatures
Checking if image destination supports signatures
Copying blob 7bffb309b4e8 done  
Copying config 96179718b4 done  
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
hi
```

> It is recommended that you use Podman quadlets to run additional containerized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended that Podman quadlets are used to run additional containerized
```

> apps within the QM. All Apps within the QM are prevented from interfering with

Reviewer: I'd stick with applications instead of apps throughout, your call.

Author: Switched to using applications.
